= uagent_rack

Helps you to deal with user agents on top of rack. 

== Install

    gem install uagent_rack

== Usage

When a browser sends a request to your web application the request has
an HTTP_USER_AGENT attribute that identifies the device an
browser. For example, the next string identifies an particular model
of iPhone, that uses an specific mobile version for Safari.

    Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; U; CPU iPhone OS 3_1_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) 
    AppleWebKit/528.18 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile/7D11
    Safari/528.16

Each mobile phone model will send you a particular user agent string,
thus is a good idea classify the devices in groups an develop a
specific interface for each group. For each group we define a key, so
the user agent parser receive the user agent string and returns that
key. For example, the answer for the string above could be :mobile or
:iphone, depending on the parser configuration. To known how to
configure the parser read the
uagent[http://github.com/danielhz/uagent] documentation.

This gem adds the RackParse class to the UAgent module, that extends
the Parser class. Unlike Parser, that analyzes the HTTP_USER_AGENT
variable every time, uagent_rack parse the user_agent only the first
time and store it in the session. Thus, the following requests will be
answered using the data in the session. Also, an user can change the
user agent adding a value for the parameter +user_agent+ in the URI
query.

=== Code example

    require 'rubygmes'
    require 'uagent_rack'

    parser = UAgent::Parser.new

    # We create an environment with a mobile user agent.

    env1 = {
      ...
      "HTTP_USER_AGENT" => "Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; U; CPU iPhone OS 3_1_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) " +
          "AppleWebKit/528.18 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile/7D11 Safari/528.16",
      ...
    }

    parser.call(env1)    # gets :mobile

    # We create another that changes the user agent

    env2 = {
      ...
      "QUERY_STRING" => "user_agent=dektop",
      "REQUEST_URI" => "/index?user_agent=desktop",
      ...
    })

    parser.call(env2)    # gets :dektop
    parser.call(env1)    # gets :dektop

== Install from code

First you need uagent

    $ gem install uagent

Then download the code from the repository:

    $ git clone git@github.com:danielhz/uagent_rack.git

This project uses jeweler to build the gem, so you can use this commands:

    $ rake build            # to build the gem
    $ rake install          # to build and install the gem in one step

Also, if you want test the gem you can use the spec task:

    $ rake spec

This project uses rcov so you can check the coverage opening the HTML
file in the coverage directory after running the spec.

== Other Stuff

Author:: Daniel Hernández, daniel@degu.cl
License:: GPL V3

== Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or implied
warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.

